
8)    
Which logic gate's truth table is this?
AND
NOT
XOR
OR
9)    
Which logic gate's truth table is this?
NOT
XOR
AND
OR
10)    
Which logic gate's truth table is this?
NOT
OR
AND
XOR
11)    
Enter the missing binary bits for the last row of the truth table
12)    
Enter the missing binary bits for the last row of the truth table
13)    
What is the logical expression notation for the logic circuit
14)    
What is the logical expression notation for the logic circuit
15)    
What is the logical expression notation for the logic circuit
16)    
Simplify this logical expression B .(1+B)
17)    
Simplyfy this logical expression A.B.(1+A)
18)    
Simplify this logical expression A.B+A.A
19)    
Simplify this logical expression A.A+A.A
20)    
Simplify this logical expression B.A.(B+A)
23)    
What is the largest denary number than can be stored in 4 bits?
24)    
What is the denary value 45 as binary?
25)    
What is the denary value 91 as binary?
26)    
What is the binary value 10001 as denary?
27)    
What is the binary value 1100011 as denary?
28)    
What is the result of the binary addition of these two numbers in binary? 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 0
29)    
What is the result of the binary addition of these two numbers in binary? 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 1
30)    
What is the result of the binary addition of these three numbers in binary? 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 0 0
31)    
What is the binary value 00110010 as hexadecimal?
32)    
What is the binary value 10111001 as hexadecimal?
33)    
What is the hexadecimal value 3C as denary?
34)    
What is the hexadecimal value D0 as denary?
35)    
What is the hexadecimal RGB code for Red?
36)    
What is the hexadecimal RGB code for Yellow, where Yellow is made up of Red and Green?
37)    
If the binary ASCII code for character A is 1000001 what is the binary ASCII code for character F?
38)    
What is the Run Length Encoding of 111001?

A.S. quizlet:

1. Computer systems - 1. Computer systems
What 4 parts of the computer does the CPU connect to? - ports
RAM
Storage
What two parts make up a computer system? - Hardware and software
What is Hardware? - Physical parts that make up a computer system
What is software? - The code that makes the computer run
What is the data bus used for? - Communication between the RAM and the CPU
What is the address bus used for? - Communication between the RAM and Storage
What is the Ethernet port used for? - Internet
What is the USB port used for? - Transfer data
What is the DVI port used for? - Just video transfer
What is the HDMI port used for? - Video and sound transfer
What is the Audio port used for? - Audio transfer
How does Input devices work in a computer system? - Input data into the computer system
What is the main reason for Process's in a computer system? - inputted data is converted into a readable form
What do Output devices do in a computer system? - Show the processed data to the user
List some input devices - Keyboard
Mouse
Joystick
Microphone
Scanner
Graphics tablet and stylus
Bar code recognition
Optical mark recognition
Sensors
What are the advantages and disadvantages of a Graphics tablet and stylus? - +
More natural
Greater accuracy and precision

-
Expensive
Hard to select and click on items
Large
What are the advantages and disadvantages of a Bar code recognition scanner? - +
Fast
Shows error
can change price easily

-
Products have to be entered in to database
If system fails they don't work
What are the advantages and disadvantages of a Optical mark recognition scanner? - +
Very fast
Accurate

-
Can't analysis human errors
No text
Needs special paper and stationary
List some output devices - Inkjet printer
Laser printer
Plotter 
Speakers
Headphones
Monitor 
Projector
What are the advantages and disadvantages of a inkjet printer? - +
Cheap 
Small
Good quality prints

-
Loud
Slow
Small cartridges
Page can come out wet
What are the advantages and disadvantages of a laser printer? - +
High quality print out(not wet)
Fast
Can do lots of printing

-
Expensive
Complex and expensive to repair
Large
What are the advantages and disadvantages of a plotter? - +
Very high quality
Can print out large pictures

-
Slow
Expensive
List some input and output devices - Voice activated systems
Multi-touch gestures (touch screens)
Whats the 5 purposes of the CPU? - Control input output devices
Synchronise data
Logical decisions
Calculation
Sorting and searching for data
Explain the fetch execute cycle - Data is fetch for by the CPU
This data is the decoded by the CPU
This data is the executed by the CPU
What does a controller do? - Controls fetch execute cycle
What does the arithmetic logic unit (ALU) do? - Logical decisions
Calculation
What do registers do? - Fast temporary storage inside CPU
What does internal memory do? - Used by the CPU like ram
What do buses do? - Transfer data
How does the clock speed affect a PC? - How fast the fetch execute cycle is carried out
How does the number of cores affect a PC? - Allow multitasking
Performance
Amount of processors
How does the cache-memory affect a PC and what is it? - High speed memory next to CPU
Improves performance with more
How does the cache-disk affect a PC and what is it? - Data stored in RAM
Improves performance with more
How do different types of processors affect a PC? - 64 bit - Fast can hold 1TB of RAM
32 bit - Slow can hold 4GB of RAM
What is ROM? - Read only memory
Non- volatile holds operating system
What is RAM? - Random access memory
Volatile stores data closer to CPU to increase performance
What is virtual memory? - Where the hard disk is used temporarily as RAM
What is a magnetic disk and what are it's advantages and disadvantages? - 1 and 0 are assigned as magnetic fields for storage
+
High storage
Fast
Strong

-
Expensive
Not portable
What is magnetic tape and what are it's advantages and disadvantages? - 1 and 0 are punched in to tape for storage
+
High storage
Cheap

-
Slow 
Fragile
What is a CD and what are it's advantages and disadvantages? - 1 and 0 are burned to the surface by a laser for storage
+
Portable
Cheap

-
Low storage
Fragile 
Slow
What is a SSD and what are it's advantages and disadvantages? - Data is compressed and composed into a series of logic gates

High storage
Fast
Portable (USB) or Not portable (SSD
Strong (SSD) or Fragie (USB)
Expensive
What is cloud storage and what are it's advantages and disadvantages? - Storing data on a external sever accessible by the internet
+
High storage
Accessible anywhere

-
Requires internet
Could be hacked
Speed depends on internet speed
What does a modem do? - Allows data to be transferred over a phone network
What does modulation mean? - Converts data in to analogue
What does de-modulation mean? - Coverts analogue into data
2. Data represation - 
What does ASCII stand for? - American standard code for information interchange
What is ASCII? - 7 bit code that can hold 128 characters
What is Unicode? - 16 bit code that can hold 65,536 characters
What is a truth table? - Shows all possible logical inputs and there associated outputs
What does a NOT gate do and what does it look like? - I-_
-------I _IO-------
 I-
Gives the oppisite
What does a AND gate do and what does it look like? - Like a D with two inputs and one output
Only provides a 1 if two 1 are present
What does a OR gate do and what does it look like? - Like a banana with two inputs and one output
Gives a 1 if a 1 is present
Put 200 into binary - 1100 1000
Put 79 in to hexadecimal - 4F
What is a Character and how big is it? - 1 byte and stores a character
What is a Integer and how big is it? - 4 bytes and stores a whole number
What is a Real and how big is it? - 8 bytes and stores a decimal number
What is a Boolean and how big is it ? - 1 byte and stores True or False
What is a String and how big is it? - 1 byte and stores a character which is pieced together with other characters to form a word
What is a bit ? - Either 1 or 0
What is a nibble ? - 4 bits
What is a byte? - 8 bits
What is a kilobyte? - 1024 bytes
What is a megabyte? - 1024 KB
What is a gigabyte? - 1024 MB
What is a terabyte? - 1024 GB
What is a petabyte? - 1024 TB
What is a exobyte? - 1024 PB
What is a zettabyte? - 1024 EB
What is a yottobyte? - 1024 ZB
How does a CPU decode a byte? - The first nibble in the operator (instruction) and the second nibble is the operand (data)
How does the CPU keep track of instruction? - By updating its program counter
Where does the CPU hold these instruction? - In the main memory
How is sound recorded? - Analogue is changed into binary to represent the curve
What is the sampling rate and what is it measured in? - Hz and how many sound samples are taken per second
What does a higher sampling rate give? - Smoother sound
What id the sampling resolution? - Audio bit depth
What does a high sampling resolution give you? - High quality recording and a large sound range
What is a pixel? - The smallest dot on a image
What is metadata? - The information on the images height, width and colour depth that comes in the file
What is resolution? - Amount of pixels per inch
What is colour depth? - Amount of bits per pixel
How many colours does 1 bit per pixel give? - 2... Black and white
How many colours does 8 bits per pixel (1 byte) give? - 256 colours
How many colours does a 16 bits per pixel (2 bytes) give? - 65536 colours
3. Computer software - 
What is a operating system? - A software that controls hardware and creates a user interface to run software
What are the 5 main parts of a operating system? - User interface
Multitasking 
Peripheral management
Memory management
Security
What is a GUI - Graphical user interface
What makes a GUI so easy to use? - Windows and Icons (make it use to use) Menu and Pointers allow easy navigation.
WIMP
Who does a GUI suit and where is it used? - On a home or business computer. Suits a range of ability
What is a CLI? - Command line interface
Who uses a CLI and what for? - Advanced programmers.. to create new programs/coding
Whats a MDI - Menu driven interface
Who uses a MDI? - Machines like ATM and self checkout
Why are MDI useful? - There are only limited options
 Easy to understand (users cant get lost)
 Users cant break into the system
What 3 things does memory management control? - RAM
Cache
Virtual memory
How does memory management make a computer run more efficiently? - Free up memory
Optimises it
Controls which memory is used
What is a software driver? - Gives information to OS on how to control the peripheral
What the sequence for peripheral management? - OS -----> Software driver -------> Peripheral
What is multi-taking? - Allowing the user to have multiple windows open
How does multitasking works and what makes it more efficient? - Programs are loaded in the RAM
More RAM and Multiples cores in the CPU
What is a virus? - A program designed to harm a computer
How does the operating system protect against viruses? - Anti-virus
How does a Anti-virus software deal with viruses? - Searches for and deletes viruses
What 3 things does a Firewall do? - Prevents unauthorised access
Checks incoming messages
Quarantines dodgy messages
What is a library and what its advantages? - Pre-made code a user inserts into there code
Makes program more simple and it works
What is a SDE and what does it allow the programmer to do? - Software development environment
Create, Test and De-bug code
What is a system restore? - Rolling back the system to a previous version to recover from a error
What is a control panel? - A panel containing system settings
What 5 things does a control panel allow the user to do? - Add Hardware
Add or remove software
Manage fonts
Manage accessibility options
Set-up WiFi
What 3 things does a disk organisation software do? - Format
Transfer
Defragmentation
What is Formatting? - Making a storage devices able to be used on the system
What is Defragmentation? - Putting all the files inside the hard drive in order, so the system runs more efficiently
Why do we compress images? - Save space
Save on upload time
Why do we compress downloads? - Reduce overall size (save space)
Faster transmission
What 2 things does a system clean up tool do? - Finds temporary, unused or unnecessary files and deletes them 
Auto-updates to keep software up to data and fix bugs
What does system maintenance provide? - System info
Diagonostoics
What are the 5 types of application software and example + uses? - Word- Writing letters/essay (Microsoft word)
Presentation- Presentation (Microsoft PowerPoint)
Spreadsheet- Calculating/accounting (Microsoft excel)
Graphics- Editing or making images (Adobe Photoshop)
Database- Sorting and organising data (Microsoft Access)
What is a flat-file database? - One table
Can easily become complex (repeated data + lots of entry's)
Difficult to manage read
What is a relational database? - Multiple tables
Easy to read (search key fields)
No repeated data
4. Networks - 
What is the FTP protocol? - How files are transferred over the internet
What is the HTTP protocol? - How web servers and bowers communicate
What is a protocol stack? and give a example - Collection of protocols to carry out a process

Application layer = Handles details
Transport layer = Flow of data
Network layer = Routing and address info
Link layer = How to interface with network
What is a network? - When two or more computers are connected together
What is a LAN network and where is it most likely to be used? - Local area network
School or business
What is a WAN network and where is it most likely to be used? - Wide area network
Country internet
What are the advantages of Networks? - File transfer 
Resource sharing
Back up are easy to do
What are the disadvantages of Networks? - Virus spread quickly
Hackers can gain entry to everything
If server fails everything fails
What does a ring topology look like? - Computers connected by cable in a ring
What are the advantages of a ring topology? - Cheap 
Easy to add new devices
No data collisions (data flows one way)
What are the disadvantages of a ring topology? - If one cable breaks whole network does
Long cables are common so signal degrades
What does a bus topology look like? - One main cable with computers coming off it
What are the advantages of a bus topology? - Cheap 
If a workstation cable breaks network inst affected
What are the disadvantages of a bus topology? - If main cable breaks the whole network breaks
Cant handle heavy traffic (lots of data collisions)
What does a star topology look like? - One main server with lots of computer coming off it
What are the advantages of a star topology? - Fast
No collisions
If a cable breaks whole network inst affected
What are the disadvantages of a star topology? - Expensive
If server fails the whole network does
What does a Network interface card do in a network? - Connects a computer to the network
What does a cable do in a network - Join the network together
What does a Bridge do in a network? - Joins similar networks together
What does a Gateway do in a network? - Joins different networks together
What does a Hub do in a network? - Connects computer together
What are the problems with a Hub? - Slow
Data randomly sent
What does a Switch do in a network? - Connects computer together
What are the advantages of a network? - Fast
Data precisely sent
What does a Wireless access point do in a network? - Allow WiFi connection
What does a Router do in a network? - Finds the most efficient route for data transfer
What are the 4 rules for passwords on a network? - 8 Characters
Upper and lower case letter
Numbers
Symbols
What are the 3 user access levels? - Read
Write
Execute
Why is encryption used? - Make data transmission secure
How is encryption used? - Data is encrypted
Only people that are wanted to revive it have the key to de-crypt the data
What is a Network policy? - Companies own rules for using the network
What are the 5 acceptable user policy's? - No spam
No hacking
No personal use
Respectful language
Manage and maintain password security
What are the two disaster relief policy's? - Back-up that can be loaded up
Off site copy of network
5. Internet and communications - 5. Internet and communications
How fast is a modem? - Slow
(device used for turning data into analogue)
Why are routers used? - To get multiple outputs from one input
What are the advantages of routers? - You can use either Wi-fi or Ethernet
What is lossless compression? - Compressing a file so that you can get the original file back
What is lossy compression? - Compressing a file so that you cant get the original file back
Why is encryption used? - So only specific people can read the messages
What is hacking? - the practise of gaining unauthorised access to a computer
What is a IP Address? - Unique identifier for a computer on a network
What is a Host ID? - Identifies a specific device on a network
What is a Network ID? - Identifies the network a device can be found on
What is a MAC address? - Unique address assigned to the device by the manufacture for LAN
What is the file standard for Web pages? - HTML/ .htm
What is the file standard for High quality photos(lossy)? - JPEG/ .jpg
What is the file standard for Animated images? - GIF/ .gif
What is the file standard for Compress photo (lossless)? - PNG/ .png
What is the file standard for Document transfer? - PDF/ .pdf
What is the file standard for a Audio file? - MP3/ .mp3
What is the file standard for Audio and Video file? - MPEG/ .mpg
What is a Domain name? - Easy to remember words for a website instead of its IP
What is a DNS and what does it do? - Domain Name Server
Translates a domain name into the websites IP
Describe the process of routing and packet switching - 1. TCP protocol breaks down the file into packets
2. A check code is created for the packets
3. Each packet contains the destination IP, Host ID and Network ID
4. Series of routers are used to transfer the packet
5. At the destination the TCP protocol resembles the file.
Why are files broken into packets the process of routing and packet switching? - So hackers cant understand them and to make it easier to send
What is the size of the packets in the process of routing and packet switching? - 128KB
Why is a check code used in the process of routing and packet switching? - To ensure their are no error is the code if there is the data is rejected and resent
What do routers do in the process of routing and packet switching? - To find the most effective and efficient route
Why are Hyperlinks used on Web pages? - To navigate in the web page or to other web pages
What do cookies do? - Tracks the user searches via their IP
Why are cookies used? - To give the user special offers based on their searches
What is a search engine? - System designed to search the World Wide Web for specific pages
Why do search engines use web crawlers? - To update their databases with infomation on:
The Websites URL
Text and keywords in the document
Main topic of the document
Search frequency of the website
How do search engines use keywords and phrases when users search something? - Return pages with those keywords or quotes
How do search engines use the Boolean logic "and" when users search something? - Only pages that contain all of the searched words
How do search engines use the Boolean logic "or" when users search something? - Pages that contain any of the searched words
How do search engines use the Boolean logic "not" when users search something? - Pages that don't contain the word searched
How do search engines use the Boolean logic "Number range" when users search something? - Pages containing the number searched
How do search engines use wildcards when users search something? - Fill in the blanks / relevant searches
Explain how a parity bit works? - Extra 1 or 0 is added to make the bit even or odd
If the parity bit inst correct (bit line inst either odd or even) then the data is rejected and resent
7. Programming - 
What is machine code? - Set of binary instructions used by the CPU
What is low-level assembly code? - A programming language that consist of some words but mostly is just instruction for machine code, written in code
What is high-level assembly code? - A programming language which is mostly words and some mathematical calculations, which is very easy to code and understand
What are constants? - Pre-set code that doesn't change
What are literals? - Values that are used in code
What are identifiers? - Data that has been given a name to make it easily understandable
What are variables? - Stored data that can change when the code is running
What are data types and what are the 5 datatypes? - How data is stored
Character
Integer
Real
Boolean
String
What is a declaration? - Where constants, variables and arrays are identified so memory can be allocated for them
What is a array? - Collection of a similar data type. But each element can be treated as a separate variable
What do assemblers do? - Turn source code into machine code
What are the advantages of assemblers? - Fast when running
What are the disadvantages of assemblers? - Complex and difficult to change your code
What do compilers do? - Turn source code into object code
What are the advantages of compilers? - No source code needed after conversion
What are the disadvantages of compilers? - Slow to convert
What do interpreters do? - Execute source code directly
What are the advantages of source code? - You can easily change your code
What are the disadvantages of source code? - Slow when running
What is a syntax error? - When a word or symbol is wrong
What is a run-time error? - When the program crashes without completing
What is a logical error? - Where a output is incorrect or unexpected
What is a rounding error? - Where a number is replaced with a approximate value
What are some strategy's to avoid errors? - Indenting code
Unit testing
Modular code
Comments
Reviewing code
De-bug tools
Back-ups
9. Ethical, Social and legal aspects - 
What are the 8 parts of the data protection act (STARS RLE)? - Safety (Only used by necessary people and sold)
Time (Only kept for the necessary time)
Accurate (Up to date and correct
Rights (The right to see and change)
Specific (Only whats required)

Relevant (Only used for whats required)
Lawful (Data must be obtained lawfully)
Eu (Data must be kept in EU)
When was DPA introduced? - 1984
What are the 3 levels of the computer misuse act? - Entering 
Stealing
Harming
When was the computer misuse act? - 1990
What are the 3 parts of the Copyright, Design and patents act? (DUR) - Stoping people
 Distributing
 Using illegally
 Replicate
When was the Copyright, Design and patents act introduced? - 1988
What are the 8 parts Engineering of code ethics?
(CMP PJP CS) - Public
Client 
Product
Judgement
Management
Professional
Colleagues
Self


